[//]: # (title: XML Report Processing)
[//]: # (auxiliary-id: XML Report Processing)

The _XML Report Processing_ [build feature](adding-build-features.md) allows using report files produced by an external tool in TeamCity. TeamCity parses the specified files on the disk and reports the results as the _build results_.

The report parsing can also be initiated from within the build via [service messages](service-messages.md#Importing+XML+Reports).

XML Report Processing supports:
* __Testing frameworks__:
  * JUnit Ant task
  * Maven Surefire/Failsafe plugin
  * NUnit-Console XML reports
  * TRX reports
  * Google Test XML reports
  * XML output from CTest
* __Code inspection tools__:
  * SpotBugs, formerly FindBugs (code inspections only): only SpotBugs native format is supported (see the corresponding [xsd](https://github.com/findbugsproject/findbugs/blob/master/findbugs/etc/bugcollection.xsd)). The XML report generated by the SpotBugs Maven plugin is __NOT__ supported: it has a completely different schema layout and elements.
  * PMD
  * Checkstyle
  * JSLint XML reports
* __Code duplicates tools__:
  * PMD Copy/Paste Detector XML reports

The bundled XML Report Processing plugin monitors the specified report paths, and when the matching files are detected, they are parsed according to the report type specified. For some report types, parsing of partially saved files is supported, so reporting is started as soon as first data is available and more data is reported as it is written on the disk.

The plugin takes into account only the files updated since the build start (determined by means of the last modification file timestamp).

## Configuring XML Report Processing

Add XML Report Processing as a [build feature](adding-build-features.md) and configure its settings:
* Choose the report type and specify monitoring rules in the form of `+|-:path` separating them by a comma or new line.

<include from="branch-filter.md" element-id="OR-syntax-tip"/>

<note>

To be processed, report XML files (or a directory) must be located in the checkout directory, and the path must be relative to the [build checkout directory](build-checkout-directory.md).
</note>

Paths without the `+|-:` prefix are treated as including. Ant-style wildcards are supported: for example, `+dir/**.xml` means _include all files with the `.xml` extension under the `dir` directory_ and `-:**/test_old.xml` means _in all directories, exclude `test_old.xml` files_.

<note>

TeamCity loads generated reports once when they are created: make sure your build procedure generates files with unique names for each test set without overwriting report files. Also, the files should have a modification timestamp within the build time, as otherwise they will be discarded as "outdated" (for example, assumed to have been generated by a previous build).
</note>

* Check the _Verbose output_ option to enable detailed logging to the build log.
* For FindBugs report processing, it is necessary to specify the path to the FindBugs installation on the agent. It will be used for retrieving actual bug patterns, categories and their messages.
* For FindBugs, PMD and Checkstyle code inspections report processing you can specify maximum errors and warnings limits, exceeding which will cause a build failure. Leave these fields blank if there are no limits.

## Development Links

See the plugin page at [XML Test Reporting](https://github.com/JetBrains/teamcity-xml-tests-reporting).

<seealso>
        <category ref="concepts">
            <a href="build-runner.md">Build Runner</a>
            <a href="testing-frameworks.md">Testing Frameworks</a>
        </category>
</seealso>
